	FreeDomo Protocol primer: Basic terminology and function

			Nils Vogels

This is not a design document; most design criteria are not yet examined. 

0. Preliminaries

	The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
      NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and
      "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
      RFC 2119.

1. Overview

	The FreeDomo Protocol (after this: FDP) is the main communication
	protocol inside the FreeDomo Domotica system. This protocol handles 
	all communication between all nodes. This document explains the basic
	function and terminology of FDP.

2. Nodes

	All devices that are part of an FDP network are called a node.

3. Roles

	A role is a specific type of function that an node fulfills. Think of 
	roles as a feature the entity has; A lightbulb has an ACTUATOR role: 
	It serves light. A toggle switch has an INPUT role: A human can indicate
	a desired action by pressing the switch.

3.1 Role specification

	Each node MUST have at least one role.

3.2 Available roles

	A complete list of available roles can be found in fdp-spec.txt

4. Communication layers

	FDP has a communication setup that consists of 2 layers: Message and
	Transport

4.1 Transport layer

	The responsibility of the transport layer is to carry messages to their
	destination. It does so regardless of the medium. The existance of the
	transport layer makes FDP medium-independant. All nodes MUST support
	at least one transport layer

	A complete list of available transport layers can be found in
	fdp-spec.txt

4.2 Message layer

	The message layer exchanges messages between nodes. These messages can
	be sensor values such as temperature, motion detection or weather, but
	also directives for lights to switch on, or touchpad input. A key
	element of the Message layer it's type-length-value orientation. This
	orientation makes it possible for nodes to process only messages they 
	know how to process, and ignore others, which makes introduction of 
	features and messages in the network much more flexible and the
	network a lot more stable because of it. All nodes MUST support at
	least the "NETWORK" section of the message layer.

	A complete list of available messages can be found in fdp-spec.txt

5. General thought

	FDP is a building block in a complete home automation system, it is the 
	buidling block that is responsible for addressing the actual electronics in
	home automation systems and getting them to do things. This is what the 
	protocol does best, and this is all it should do. Transporting audio/video
	and the likes is not the intention of the protocol, however it could be
	possible in theory.

	The home automation network may become unavailable, which SHOULD NOT result
	in non-functional devices, this may cause dangerous or otherwise
	undesireable situations, such as not being able to turn on the lights in an
	emergency.
